api-reference/tron-trx/HTTP_API/gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract.md, before:

# gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract - TRON

## Meta Description

Discover gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract with our REST API Interface for seamless Tron protocol interactions.

## Description

The 'gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract' Web3 method in the Tron protocol is a powerful tool for developers working with shielded TRC-20 contracts. This method allows you to retrieve the necessary trigger input data required to interact with shielded contracts, ensuring secure and private transactions on the Tron network. Utilizing the 'gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract' RPC protocol, developers can efficiently manage contract interactions while maintaining a high level of privacy and security. Designed for ease of use, this method offers a streamlined approach to accessing and manipulating contract data, making it an essential component for developers focused on enhancing their decentralized applications within the Tron ecosystem.

## Supported Networks

The gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract REST API method supports the following network types

* **Mainnet**
* **Testnets**

## Parameters

Here is the list of parameters gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract method needs to be executed.

* **owner\_address** (Required)
  * **Type**: String
  * **Description**: The address of the owner initiating the request.
  * **Supported Values**: A valid Tron address format.
* **exchange\_id** (Required)
  * **Type**: Integer
  * **Description**: The unique identifier for the exchange.
  * **Supported Values**: Any valid exchange ID.
* **token\_id** (Required)
  * **Type**: String
  * **Description**: The identifier for the token involved in the transaction.
  * **Supported Values**: A hexadecimal string representing the token ID.
* **quant** (Required)
  * **Type**: Integer
  * **Description**: The quantity of tokens to be involved in the transaction.
  * **Supported Values**: Any positive integer representing the amount of tokens.
* **visible** (Optional)
  * **Type**: Boolean
  * **Description**: A flag indicating whether the transaction should be visible.
  * **Default Value**: true
  * **Supported Values**: true or false.

### URL

```json
https://go.getblock.io/<ACCESS-TOKEN>/
```

Here’s a sample cURL request using gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract

Request

```json
curl --request POST 
     --url https://go.getblock.io/<ACCESS-TOKEN>/ \
     --header 'accept: application/json' 
     --header 'content-type: application/json' 
     --data {
  "owner_address": "TZ4UXDV5ZhNW7fb2AMSbgfAEZ7hWsnYS2g",
  "exchange_id": 12,
  "token_id": "31303030343837",
  "quant": 100,
  "visible": true
}
```

Response

```json
{
  "Error": "class org.tron.core.exception.ZksnarkException : invalid shielded TRC-20 parameters type"
}
```

## Body Parameters

Here is the list of body parameters for the `getTriggerInputForShieldedTRC20Contract` method:

1. **contractAddress**: The address of the TRC-20 contract you want to interact with. This is a string parameter that should be a valid TRON address.
2. **fromAddress**: The address from which the transaction is initiated. This is a string parameter and should be a valid TRON address.
3. **toAddress**: The recipient's address for the transaction. This should also be a valid TRON address in string format.
4. **amount**: The amount of TRC-20 tokens to be transferred. This is a numeric parameter and should be specified in the smallest unit of the token.
5. **memo**: An optional string parameter that allows you to include a memo or note with the transaction.
6. **feeLimit**: The maximum fee you are willing to pay for the transaction. This is a numeric parameter and should be specified in SUN (the smallest unit of TRX).
7. **callValue**: The amount of TRX to transfer along with the TRC-20 token transaction. This is optional and should be specified in SUN.
8. **visible**: A boolean parameter that indicates if the addresses are in base58check format (true) or hex format (false).
9. **shieldedParameters**: A complex object containing the shielded transaction parameters. This includes details such as proof, spendAuthSig, and other related cryptographic elements required for the shielded transaction.
10. **triggerName**: The name of the function you are calling on the contract. This is a string parameter that should match the method name in the contract's ABI.

Ensure that all parameters are correctly formatted and valid to avoid errors like "invalid shielded TRC-20 parameters type."

## Use Case

Here are some use-cases for the `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method in Web3 programming:

1. **Privacy-Preserving Transactions**: In the realm of Web3, privacy is a critical concern. The `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method can be used to facilitate shielded transactions, which hide the details of a transaction from public view. This is particularly useful for users who want to maintain confidentiality when transferring TRC20 tokens. By using this method, developers can create applications that allow users to conduct private transactions, ensuring that sensitive information such as transaction amounts and participant addresses are not exposed on the blockchain.
2. **Decentralized Finance (DeFi) Applications**: DeFi platforms can leverage the `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method to enhance the privacy features of their services. For instance, DeFi lending or trading platforms can integrate this method to offer shielded transactions as an option for their users. This can attract users who are concerned about financial privacy and wish to keep their trading or lending activities confidential. By providing shielded transaction capabilities, DeFi platforms can differentiate themselves in a competitive market and cater to privacy-conscious users.
3. **Compliance with Privacy Regulations**: As blockchain technology becomes more mainstream, regulatory compliance is becoming increasingly important. The `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method can help developers build applications that comply with privacy regulations by enabling shielded transactions. This is particularly relevant in jurisdictions with strict data protection laws, such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union. By integrating shielded transaction capabilities, developers can ensure that their applications adhere to privacy standards and protect user data from unauthorized access.

Overall, the `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method plays a crucial role in enhancing privacy and security in Web3 applications, making it a valuable tool for developers in the blockchain space.

## Code for gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract

```python
import requests
import json

url = "https://go.getblock.io/<ACCESS-TOKEN>/"
headers = {
    'accept': 'application/json',
    'content-type': 'application/json'
}

payload = {
  "owner_address": "TZ4UXDV5ZhNW7fb2AMSbgfAEZ7hWsnYS2g",
  "exchange_id": 12,
  "token_id": "31303030343837",
  "quant": 100,
  "visible": true
}

response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, data=json.dumps(data))
print(response.json())
```

## Common Errors

Common Errors\
When using the gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract HTTP REST API Tron method, the following issues may occur:

* **Invalid Owner Address**: If the owner\_address is incorrectly formatted or doesn't adhere to the Tron address structure, the request will fail. Ensure the address is a valid Tron address starting with "T" and is 34 characters long.
* **Incorrect Exchange ID**: Providing an incorrect or non-existent exchange\_id can result in a failed request. Double-check the exchange ID against the available exchanges in the Tron network.
* **Malformed Token ID**: The token\_id should be a properly encoded hexadecimal string. Verify that the token ID is correctly formatted and corresponds to an existing token on the Tron network.
* **Visibility Parameter Misuse**: The visible parameter should be a boolean value. Ensure that it is set to either true or false to avoid unexpected behavior.

The gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract method is a powerful tool for Web3 developers, enabling seamless interaction with shielded TRC20 contracts on the Tron blockchain. By leveraging this method, developers can enhance privacy features within their decentralized applications, providing users with secure and confidential transactions.

### conclusion

The provided JSON data outlines parameters for a transaction involving a shielded TRC20 contract on the Tron blockchain. Using the `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` HTTP API, developers can securely interact with these contracts by specifying details such as the owner's address, exchange ID, and token ID. This API is essential for managing shielded transactions, ensuring both privacy and efficiency on the Tron network.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-162: Oct 16 - meta descirptions (DEV-3455)

api-reference/tron-trx/HTTP_API/gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Discover GetTriggerInputForShieldedTrc20Contract TRON method with our REST API
  interface to retrieve shielded TRC-20 smart contract input data
---

# gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract - TRON

## Description

The 'gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract' Web3 method in the Tron protocol is a powerful tool for developers working with shielded TRC-20 contracts. This method allows you to retrieve the necessary trigger input data required to interact with shielded contracts, ensuring secure and private transactions on the Tron network.&#x20;

Utilizing the 'gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract' RPC protocol, developers can efficiently manage contract interactions while maintaining a high level of privacy and security.&#x20;

Designed for ease of use, this method offers a streamlined approach to accessing and manipulating contract data, making it an essential component for developers focused on enhancing their decentralized applications within the Tron ecosystem.

## Supported Networks

The GetTriggerInputForShieldedTrc20Contract REST API method supports the following network types

* **Mainnet**
* **Testnets**

## Parameters

Here is the list of parameters GetTriggerInputForShieldedTrc20Contract method needs to be executed.

* **owner\_address** (Required)
  * **Type**: String
  * **Description**: The address of the owner initiating the request.
  * **Supported Values**: A valid Tron address format.
* **exchange\_id** (Required)
  * **Type**: Integer
  * **Description**: The unique identifier for the exchange.
  * **Supported Values**: Any valid exchange ID.
* **token\_id** (Required)
  * **Type**: String
  * **Description**: The identifier for the token involved in the transaction.
  * **Supported Values**: A hexadecimal string representing the token ID.
* **quant** (Required)
  * **Type**: Integer
  * **Description**: The quantity of tokens to be involved in the transaction.
  * **Supported Values**: Any positive integer representing the amount of tokens.
* **visible** (Optional)
  * **Type**: Boolean
  * **Description**: A flag indicating whether the transaction should be visible.
  * **Default Value**: true
  * **Supported Values**: true or false.

### URL

```json
https://go.getblock.io/<ACCESS-TOKEN>/
```

Here’s a sample cURL request using GetTriggerInputForShieldedTrc20Contract

Request

```json
curl --request POST 
     --url https://go.getblock.io/<ACCESS-TOKEN>/ \
     --header 'accept: application/json' 
     --header 'content-type: application/json' 
     --data {
  "owner_address": "TZ4UXDV5ZhNW7fb2AMSbgfAEZ7hWsnYS2g",
  "exchange_id": 12,
  "token_id": "31303030343837",
  "quant": 100,
  "visible": true
}
```

Response

```json
{
  "Error": "class org.tron.core.exception.ZksnarkException : invalid shielded TRC-20 parameters type"
}
```

## Body Parameters

Here is the list of body parameters for the `getTriggerInputForShieldedTRC20Contract` method:

1. **contractAddress**: The address of the TRC-20 contract you want to interact with. This is a string parameter that should be a valid TRON address.
2. **fromAddress**: The address from which the transaction is initiated. This is a string parameter and should be a valid TRON address.
3. **toAddress**: The recipient's address for the transaction. This should also be a valid TRON address in string format.
4. **amount**: The amount of TRC-20 tokens to be transferred. This is a numeric parameter and should be specified in the smallest unit of the token.
5. **memo**: An optional string parameter that allows you to include a memo or note with the transaction.
6. **feeLimit**: The maximum fee you are willing to pay for the transaction. This is a numeric parameter and should be specified in SUN (the smallest unit of TRX).
7. **callValue**: The amount of TRX to transfer along with the TRC-20 token transaction. This is optional and should be specified in SUN.
8. **visible**: A boolean parameter that indicates if the addresses are in base58check format (true) or hex format (false).
9. **shieldedParameters**: A complex object containing the shielded transaction parameters. This includes details such as proof, spendAuthSig, and other related cryptographic elements required for the shielded transaction.
10. **triggerName**: The name of the function you are calling on the contract. This is a string parameter that should match the method name in the contract's ABI.

Ensure that all parameters are correctly formatted and valid to avoid errors like "invalid shielded TRC-20 parameters type."

## Use Cases

Here are some use-cases for the `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method in Web3 programming:

1. **Privacy-Preserving Transactions**: In the realm of Web3, privacy is a critical concern. The `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method can be used to facilitate shielded transactions, which hide the details of a transaction from public view. This is particularly useful for users who want to maintain confidentiality when transferring TRC20 tokens. By using this method, developers can create applications that allow users to conduct private transactions, ensuring that sensitive information such as transaction amounts and participant addresses are not exposed on the blockchain.
2. **Decentralized Finance (DeFi) Applications**: DeFi platforms can leverage the `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method to enhance the privacy features of their services. For instance, DeFi lending or trading platforms can integrate this method to offer shielded transactions as an option for their users. This can attract users who are concerned about financial privacy and wish to keep their trading or lending activities confidential. By providing shielded transaction capabilities, DeFi platforms can differentiate themselves in a competitive market and cater to privacy-conscious users.
3. **Compliance with Privacy Regulations**: As blockchain technology becomes more mainstream, regulatory compliance is becoming increasingly important. The `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method can help developers build applications that comply with privacy regulations by enabling shielded transactions. This is particularly relevant in jurisdictions with strict data protection laws, such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union. By integrating shielded transaction capabilities, developers can ensure that their applications adhere to privacy standards and protect user data from unauthorized access.

Overall, the `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` method plays a crucial role in enhancing privacy and security in Web3 applications, making it a valuable tool for developers in the blockchain space.

## Code for gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract

```python
import requests
import json

url = "https://go.getblock.io/<ACCESS-TOKEN>/"
headers = {
    'accept': 'application/json',
    'content-type': 'application/json'
}

payload = {
  "owner_address": "TZ4UXDV5ZhNW7fb2AMSbgfAEZ7hWsnYS2g",
  "exchange_id": 12,
  "token_id": "31303030343837",
  "quant": 100,
  "visible": true
}

response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, data=json.dumps(data))
print(response.json())
```

## Common Errors

Common Errors\
When using the gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract HTTP REST API Tron method, the following issues may occur:

* **Invalid Owner Address**: If the owner\_address is incorrectly formatted or doesn't adhere to the Tron address structure, the request will fail. Ensure the address is a valid Tron address starting with "T" and is 34 characters long.
* **Incorrect Exchange ID**: Providing an incorrect or non-existent exchange\_id can result in a failed request. Double-check the exchange ID against the available exchanges in the Tron network.
* **Malformed Token ID**: The token\_id should be a properly encoded hexadecimal string. Verify that the token ID is correctly formatted and corresponds to an existing token on the Tron network.
* **Visibility Parameter Misuse**: The visible parameter should be a boolean value. Ensure that it is set to either true or false to avoid unexpected behavior.

The gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract method is a powerful tool for Web3 developers, enabling seamless interaction with shielded TRC20 contracts on the Tron blockchain. By leveraging this method, developers can enhance privacy features within their decentralized applications, providing users with secure and confidential transactions.

### Conclusion

The provided JSON data outlines parameters for a transaction involving a shielded TRC20 contract on the Tron blockchain. Using the `gettriggerinputforshieldedtrc20contract` HTTP API, developers can securely interact with these contracts by specifying details such as the owner's address, exchange ID, and token ID. This API is essential for managing shielded transactions, ensuring both privacy and efficiency on the Tron network.
